Add realtime costs docs (#31384)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloud_cost_management/realtime_costs.md

---

> title: Realtime Costs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Real-Time Costs
```

Author: ```suggestion
title: Real-Time Cloud Costs
```

I think putting "cloud" in the title is actually more clear. There are a lot of costs that we would not be covering

private: true

> description: View and analyze cloud spend in real time.

Author: I am curious how you decided on `real-time` vs say `realtime` or `real time`
I agree to be consistent, sorry I was not. I have however been calling it `realtime` in most places and am just curious. Happy to call the feature whatever you think is best though

> description: View and analyze cloud spend in real time.

Author: Oh, ok that is confusing. But I will try my best to follow that rule in general. Thanks for guiding me

And yeah I think we should update the title to "Real-Time Costs" if that is the propper way to spell it

further_reading:
- link: "/cloud_cost_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Cloud Cost Management"
---

> {{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Realtime Costs is in Preview" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="Real-Time Costs is in Preview" >}}
```

## Overview

Realtime Costs provide near realtime estimates of your Amazon EC2 compute spend allowing you to see changes before they appear on your bill.

> Use realtime costs to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use real-time costs to:
```

- Detect anomalies early
- Observe the impact of recent changes
- Monitor hourly or sub-hourly spend trends

Estimates are based on recent average hourly net amortized EC2 prices by instance type, region, and aws account.

## Requirements

- Cloud Cost Management enabled for the AWS account
- Datadog Agent installed on each EC2 instance

## Usage

> To use realtime costs it is recommended to always use the `sum` aggregation. In addition a `rollup` using a `sum` with an interval no less than 5min is recommended. `sum:aws.cost.net.amortized.realtime.estimated.test{*}.as_count().rollup(sum, 300)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use real-time costs it is recommended to always use the `sum` aggregation. In addition a `rollup` using a `sum` with an interval no less than 5min is recommended. `sum:aws.cost.net.amortized.realtime.estimated.test{*}.as_count().rollup(sum, 300)`
```

> To use realtime costs it is recommended to always use the `sum` aggregation. In addition a `rollup` using a `sum` with an interval no less than 5min is recommended. `sum:aws.cost.net.amortized.realtime.estimated.test{*}.as_count().rollup(sum, 300)`

Author: This one says it is outdated, I think there were conflicting comments on this line 😨

You can learn more about rate metrics [here][1].

## Accuracy

- Sources of variance include:
  - Hourly averages that shift with your recent mix of on-demand, commitment, and spot spend
  - Minor differences in true instance start and end times vs what the agent reports
- Underestimation can occur when:
  - EC2 instances are not monitored by the Datadog Agent
  - Newly used instance types or regions have not yet appeared in CCM billing data
  - Estimates cover compute only (not EBS, networking, etc.)
- Overestimation can occur when:
  - Instances are monitored by the Datadog Agent but are not included in CCM billing data
- Preview accuracy:
  - During the preview period data may be unstable. Large temporary drops in cost or gaps may occur
  - For long term trends it is still always recommended to use the accurate Cloud Cost metrics based on direct AWS billing data

## Limitations

Tagging may be inconsistent when compared to the other CCM metrics.
Not all AWS billing or FinOps FOCUS tags are able to be replicated to the realtime cost metric.

> Realtime costs also do not support tag pipelines. Realtime costs do not support Kubernetes resource tags such as `kube_namespace`. Therefore only tags that show up on Amazon EC2 instance directly will be available. Tags that exist only on Kubernetes nodes will not be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Realtime costs also do not support tag pipelines or Kubernetes resource tags such as `kube_namespace`. Only tags that appear on the Amazon EC2 instance directly are available. Tags that exist only on Kubernetes nodes are not available.
```

Author: This one says it is outdated, I think there were conflicting comments on this line 😨

> Realtime costs also do not support tag pipelines. Realtime costs do not support Kubernetes resource tags such as `kube_namespace`. Therefore only tags that show up on Amazon EC2 instance directly will be available. Tags that exist only on Kubernetes nodes will not be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Real-time costs also do not support tag pipelines. Real-time costs do not support Kubernetes resource tags such as `kube_namespace`. Therefore only tags that show up on Amazon EC2 instance directly are available. Tags that exist only on Kubernetes nodes are not available.
```
